# Geog_458_Final-Essay

Habtamu Kabeto 

Geog 458 

Final Essay

For this final essay, I would be writing about the project I worked on during lab 4, which was map design and tile generation.  The project focuses on generating four tile sets of geographic phenomena of Road Weather Information Stations by using the open data portal from the City of Seattle. This data is derived from sensor stations placed on bridges and surface streets within city limits. Each station has a temperature sensor that measures the temperature of the street surface and a sensor that measures the ambient air temperature at the station each second. Those values are averaged into temperature readings that are recorded by the station every minute. In order to complete this project, I had to use mapbox to create a base map, QGIS to create the tiles, and Github to publish the project. In most web map applications, Basemap is overlaid with other thematic map layers and/or interactive features. Its primary function is to illustrate the geographical context of the study area. Therefore, a basemap is usually made in a monochrome color scheme. The final output of the project has three different basemap layers: Grayscale, Streets, and Satellite view. This project is intended to help navigate Road Weather Information Stations easily for drivers or travelers. The first tile is made of a base map that was created using mapbox. The second tile is made by using the actual data which is Road Weather Information Stations data from the City of Seattle open data portal. The third tile was made of a layer group that is composed of a thematic layer from the second tile set and a basemap from the first tile set or by combining tile one and two together. The fourth tile set was designed on Mapbox but it was a thematic map with more colors and labels to help with the message of the project. The final project was an interactive map with the four tiles as options as well as the three main base maps which are the Grayscale, Streets, and Satellite view. This was done to help the viewer better understand the locations as well as give the user more control over the project to view what they want. The user can choose which base map they would prefer as well as what data to display meaning if they want to see just the modified base map or just the Road Weather Information data mapped, or the base map with the Road Weather Information data mapped or the thematic map. It is very simple and easy to use with boxes/circles to select or click on. The interactive features of the project are what I would consider the pros of the project and the project not having to put layer on top of layer when it comes to the maps would be what I would consider cons. Mapping has been changing throughout the years in many shapes and forms. Digital mapping has been effective and has taken over the world in every aspect when it comes to mapping. Reading the article “How Digital Mapping is Changing The Way We Visualize Racism and Segregation,” Sarah Bond mentions that “Digital mapping and database construction can allow us to reconstruct, preserve, and visualize vestiges of the past.” Digital mapping has taken over the world and has made life way easier to share, educate, and visualize life thisdays. For example during this project I developed, I was able to create a map that has multiple layers, is interactive, and is informative. 
